montagejs/theme-digit-components.md, before:

---

layout: docs
title: Digit - MontageJS Theme

prev-page: themes
this-page: theme-digit-components
next-page: theme-matte-components

---


# Digit Theme

Digit is a touch-optimized component set for use with tablets and mobile phones. You can choose from three themes: flat, light, and dark.

## Overview
The following list provides an overview of the existing Digit components.

[ ![Button](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/button.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/button.reel)
[ ![Badge](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/badge.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/badge.reel)
[ ![Checkbox](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/checkbox.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/checkbox.reel)
[ ![RadioButton](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/radio-button.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/radio-button.reel)
[ ![ToggleSwitch](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/toggle-switch.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/toggle-switch.reel)
[ ![Select](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/select.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/select.reel)
[ ![NumberField](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/number-field.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/number-field.reel)
[ ![Slider](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/slider.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/slider.reel)
[ ![Text](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/text.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text.reel)
[ ![Title](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/title.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/title.reel)
[ ![TextField](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/text-field.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text-field.reel)
[ ![TextArea](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/text-area.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text-area.reel)

## Available Components
The following list summarizes the UI components that are currently part of the Digit widget set:

Component | Description 
------------ | ------------- 
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/badge.reel" target="_blank">Badge</a> |  Provides badge metadata functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/button.reel" target="_blank">Button</a> | Provides button functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/checkbox.reel" target="_blank">Checkbox</a> | Provides checkbox (multichoice) functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/image.reel" target="_blank">Image</a> | Provides functionality for displaying an image.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/list-item.reel" target="_blank">ListItem</a> | Provides functionality for adding individual list items.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/list.reel" target="_blank">List</a> | Provides functionality for adding multi-item lists.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/number-field.reel" target="_blank">NumberField</a> | Provides functionality for entering a number in a text field. This typically includes a spinner control attached to the text field.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/radio-button.reel" target="_blank">RadioButton</a> | Provides radio button (single option) functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/select.reel" target="_blank">Select</a> | Provides drop-down list functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/slider.reel" target="_blank">Slider</a> | Provides slider functionality. 
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text-area.reel" target="_blank">TextArea</a> | Provides functionality for an expandable multiline text field.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text-field.reel" target="_blank">TextField</a> | Provides functionality for a single-line text field.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text.reel" target="_blank">Text</a> | Provides functionality for adding styled text.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/title.reel" target="_blank">Title</a> | Provides functionality for adding a styled Title element. 
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/toggle-switch.reel" target="_blank">ToggleSwitch</a> | Provides toggle functionality.

## Updating Digit
Digit is part of the default application template. The theme is still under development. To ensure you are using the latest version of digit, follow these steps:

1. Use your command line tool to switch to your project directory.

    ```
    cd yourprojectfolder
    ```
    
2. At the prompt, enter:

    ```
    npm install digit@latest --save
    ```
    
    The `--save` flag ensures that the digit package is automatically added as a dependency to the package.json file of your application code.

Commit message:

clarify how to set data-montage-skin

montagejs/theme-digit-components.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Digit - MontageJS Theme

this-page: theme-digit-components
---

Digit Theme
===

* TOC
{:toc}

Digit is a touch-optimized component set for use with tablets and mobile phones. You can choose from below by setting `data-montage-skin="light"`:

- `wireframe`
- `light`
- `dark`

## Overview
The following list provides an overview of the existing Digit components.

[ ![Button](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/button.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/button.reel)
[ ![Badge](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/badge.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/badge.reel)
[ ![Checkbox](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/checkbox.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/checkbox.reel)
[ ![RadioButton](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/radio-button.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/radio-button.reel)
[ ![ToggleSwitch](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/toggle-switch.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/toggle-switch.reel)
[ ![Select](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/select.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/select.reel)
[ ![NumberField](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/number-field.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/number-field.reel)
[ ![Slider](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/slider.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/slider.reel)
[ ![Text](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/text.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text.reel)
[ ![Title](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/title.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/title.reel)
[ ![TextField](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/text-field.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text-field.reel)
[ ![TextArea](https://raw.github.com/montagejs/digit/master/ui/text-area.reel/screenshot.png) ](https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text-area.reel)

## Available Components
The following list summarizes the UI components that are currently part of the Digit widget set:

Component | Description
------------ | -------------
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/badge.reel" target="_blank">Badge</a> |  Provides badge metadata functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/button.reel" target="_blank">Button</a> | Provides button functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/checkbox.reel" target="_blank">Checkbox</a> | Provides checkbox (multichoice) functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/image.reel" target="_blank">Image</a> | Provides functionality for displaying an image.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/list-item.reel" target="_blank">ListItem</a> | Provides functionality for adding individual list items.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/list.reel" target="_blank">List</a> | Provides functionality for adding multi-item lists.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/number-field.reel" target="_blank">NumberField</a> | Provides functionality for entering a number in a text field. This typically includes a spinner control attached to the text field.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/radio-button.reel" target="_blank">RadioButton</a> | Provides radio button (single option) functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/select.reel" target="_blank">Select</a> | Provides drop-down list functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/slider.reel" target="_blank">Slider</a> | Provides slider functionality.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text-area.reel" target="_blank">TextArea</a> | Provides functionality for an expandable multiline text field.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text-field.reel" target="_blank">TextField</a> | Provides functionality for a single-line text field.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/text.reel" target="_blank">Text</a> | Provides functionality for adding styled text.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/title.reel" target="_blank">Title</a> | Provides functionality for adding a styled Title element.
<a href="https://github.com/montagejs/digit/tree/master/ui/toggle-switch.reel" target="_blank">ToggleSwitch</a> | Provides toggle functionality.

## Updating Digit
Digit is part of the default application template. The theme is still under development. To ensure you are using the latest version of digit, follow these steps:

Use your command line tool to switch to your project directory.

```sh
cd yourprojectfolder
```

At the prompt, enter:

```sh
npm install digit@latest --save
```

The `--save` flag ensures that the digit package is automatically added as a dependency to the package.json file of your application code.
